add 3d objects metadata block (#11167)
IQSS/dataverse: doc/release-notes/11120-add-3d-object-metadata-block.md

> This feature adds a new Metadata block for describing 3D Object Data
> 
> The new Metadata block will be added during the installation or upgrade of Dataverse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New 3D Object Data Metadata Block

A new metadata block has been added for describing 3D object data. You can download it from the [guides](https://dataverse-guide--11167.org.readthedocs.build/en/11167/user/appendix.html). See also #11120 and #11167.

All new Dataverse installations will receive this metadata block by default. We recommend adding it by following the upgrade instructions below.

## Upgrade Instructions

TODO: local 3d block, update schema, etc.
```

As I wrote below, I don't think update-datasetfields.sh is actively used and I'm not sure why we're maintaining it. There's no magic to do all the updating (especially including the Solr schema) so we have to write it out. Some suggestions are below.

In a GitHub suggestion I can't add fenced code blocks so I'm just going to post verbatim the 6.4 part I think we need to add and tweak. We need to change citation to 3dwhatever and otherwise edit this and add it where I'm putting TODO:

6\. Update metadata blocks

These changes reflect incremental improvements made to the handling of core metadata fields.

```shell
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IQSS/dataverse/v6.4/scripts/api/data/metadatablocks/citation.tsv

curl http://localhost:8080/api/admin/datasetfield/load -H "Content-type: text/tab-separated-values" -X POST --upload-file citation.tsv
```

7\. Update Solr schema.xml file. Start with the standard v6.4 schema.xml, then, if your installation uses any custom or experimental metadata blocks, update it to include the extra fields (step 7a).

Stop Solr (usually `service solr stop`, depending on Solr installation/OS, see the [Installation Guide](https://guides.dataverse.org/en/6.4/installation/prerequisites.html#solr-init-script)).

```shell
sudo service solr stop
```

Replace schema.xml

```shell
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IQSS/dataverse/v6.4/conf/solr/schema.xml
sudo cp schema.xml /usr/local/solr/solr-9.4.1/server/solr/collection1/conf
```

Start Solr (but if you use any custom metadata blocks, perform the next step, 7a first).

```shell
sudo service solr start
```

7a\. For installations with custom or experimental metadata blocks:

Before starting Solr, update the schema to include all the extra metadata fields that your installation uses. We do this by collecting the output of the Dataverse schema API and feeding it to the `update-fields.sh` script that we supply, as in the example below (modify the command lines as needed to reflect the names of the directories, if different):

```shell
	wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IQSS/dataverse/v6.4/conf/solr/update-fields.sh
	chmod +x update-fields.sh
	curl "http://localhost:8080/api/admin/index/solr/schema" | sudo ./update-fields.sh /usr/local/solr/solr-9.4.1/server/solr/collection1/conf/schema.xml
```

Now start Solr.

Reviewer: @stevenwinship two things.

I accidentally put a typo in your release note snippet. I said "local 3d block" when I meant "load".

More importantly, can you please take the instructions above (about loading the block and messing with Solr) and massage them into the release note snippet? QA will need them when upgrading dataverse-internal, beta, demo, and eventually production. It doesn't have to be perfect but QA should be able to follow it and give feedback.

Author: Question: Why does the 6.5 release notes ask you to wget the metadata block files and schema file from https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IQSS/dataverse/v6.4 instead of the latest release https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IQSS/dataverse/v6.5 ?????

### New 3D Object Data Metadata Block

A new metadata block has been added for describing 3D object data. You can download it from the [guides](https://dataverse-guide--11167.org.readthedocs.build/en/11167/user/appendix.html). See also #11120 and #11167.

All new Dataverse installations will receive this metadata block by default. We recommend adding it by following the upgrade instructions below.

## Upgrade Instructions

> TODO: load 3d block, update schema, etc.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
